README.md, before:

# Graphcore application demos and prototypes

This repository contains application demos and prototypes for use with
Graphcore IPUs. Examples and applications presented here are experimental, and may only be tested/compatible with indicated SDK releases. 

If you are interested in finding out more about Graphcore, including
getting preview access to IPUs to run these examples, please register
your interest [here](https://www.graphcore.ai/product_info).

Please note we are not currently accepting pull requests or issues on this
repository. If you are actively using this repository and want to report any issues, please raise a ticket through the Graphcore support portal: https://www.graphcore.ai/support.

The latest version of the documentation for the Poplar software stack, and other developer resources, is available at https://www.graphcore.ai/developer.

Unless otherwise specified by a LICENSE file in a subdirectory, the LICENSE referenced at the top level applies to the files in this repository.

## Repository contents

- `tensorflow/minigo_0_6`: IPU version of the MLPerf MiniGo training benchmark version 0.6.
- `tensorflow2/ABC_COVID-19`: Approximate Bayesian Computation for COVID-19 modelling

Commit message:

Updated Main content and support

README.md, after:

# Graphcore application demos and prototypes

This repository contains application demos and prototypes for use with
Graphcore IPUs. Examples and applications presented here are experimental, and may only be tested/compatible with indicated SDK releases as indicated in the example's README and requirement file.  If you are going to use it for a more recent version of the SDK compared to the point-release in this repository, course your requests to your respective regional sales manager and inform DevRel.

If you are interested in finding out more about Graphcore, including
getting preview access to IPUs to run these examples, please register
your interest [here](https://www.graphcore.ai/product_info).

Please note that we are not currently accepting pull requests or issues on this
repository. If you have a project you wish to submit to the portfolio-examples repository, you can send your requests to the #devrel slack channel.

The latest version of the documentation for the Poplar software stack, and other developer resources, is available at https://www.graphcore.ai/developer.

Unless otherwise specified by a LICENSE file in a subdirectory, the LICENSE referenced at the top level applies to the files in this repository.

## Repository contents


| Example | Framework | Link |
| ------- | ---- | ---- |
| Minigo | Tensorflow1 | [code](tensorflow/minigo_0_6/) |
| Reference Evapotranspiration(ET0)  |Tensorflow | [code](portfolio-examples/tensorflow/et0/) |
| Probabilistic COVID-19 modelling with Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) | TensorFlow | [code](tensorflow2/ABC_COVID-19/) |
| BERT Base | PaddlePaddle | [code](paddlepaddle/bert-base/) |
