tensorflow/et0/README.md, before:

# Implementation of 2D Ordinary Kriging algorithm and calculate Reference Evapotranspiration(ET0) on IPU using TensorFlow
## Overview
1.This project is based on [PyKrige](https://github.com/GeoStat-Framework/PyKrige), we have implemented the `example/00_ordinary.py` example by using TensorFlow on IPU. You can achieve almost the same result.  
2.ET0 is a common method for calculating meteorological elements, the calculation process of various ET0 is roughly the same, and kriging algorithm used is one of the more famous interpolation algorithms.  
3.We do interpolation analysis of weather elements such as temperature, humidity, pressure and wind speed, and use Penman equation to calculate the ET0, which can get the law of water transpiration in the area. It's of great value for the research of meteorological data mining, evaluation of numerical weather forecasting, and climate change, etc.  
4.The input form of ET0 is discrete points, the form of each point is [longitude, latitude, pressure/wind speed/temperature], and there are more than 2000 such points involved in the calculation every day.  
5.There are many models involved in kriging algorithm, we use linear semivariogram function.  
5.Our project is based on the open source kriging algorithm in `1` and the code provided by Agilor.  
## Environment
This has been tested with the following dependencies:
- Poplar SDK version 2.2
- Ubuntu 18.04
## Quick start guide
Prepare the environment  
**1) Download the Poplar SDK**  

Install the Poplar SDK following the instructions in the [Getting Started guide](https://docs.graphcore.ai/projects/ipu-pod-getting-started/en/latest/installation.html) for your IPU system. Make sure to source the enable.sh scripts for poplar.  

**2) Python**

Create a virtualenv and install the required packages:
```
bash
virtualenv venv -p python3.6
source venv/bin/activate
pip install <path to the tensorflow-1 wheel file from the Poplar SDK>
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**3) Compile and run example script**

The program `run.sh` contains the steps to compile the matrix solver library and run the IPU implementation of the kriging algorithm. This example uses 1 day’s data and  repeated 14 times to simulate 14 days of ET0 calculations. This will run the process with 4 IPU, which will take 10 minutes to complete.  

## License
The code presented here is licensed under the MIT License.  
`kriging_test.py` refers to `Pykrige`  
`kriging_test.py` is licensed under BSD 3-Clause: https://github.com/GeoStat-Framework/PyKrige/blob/main/LICENSE

Commit message:

Added data section to readme

tensorflow/et0/README.md, after:

# Implementation of 2D Ordinary Kriging algorithm and calculate Reference Evapotranspiration(ET0) on IPU using TensorFlow
## Overview
1.This project is based on [PyKrige](https://github.com/GeoStat-Framework/PyKrige), we have implemented the `example/00_ordinary.py` example by using TensorFlow on IPU. You can achieve almost the same result.  
2.ET0 is a common method for calculating meteorological elements, the calculation process of various ET0 is roughly the same, and kriging algorithm used is one of the more famous interpolation algorithms.  
3.We do interpolation analysis of weather elements such as temperature, humidity, pressure and wind speed, and use Penman equation to calculate the ET0, which can get the law of water transpiration in the area. It's of great value for the research of meteorological data mining, evaluation of numerical weather forecasting, and climate change, etc.  
4.The input form of ET0 is discrete points, the form of each point is [longitude, latitude, pressure/wind speed/temperature], and there are more than 2000 such points involved in the calculation every day.  
5.There are many models involved in kriging algorithm, we use linear semivariogram function.  
5.Our project is based on the open source kriging algorithm in `1` and the code provided by Agilor.  
## Environment
This has been tested with the following dependencies:
- Poplar SDK version 2.2
- Ubuntu 18.04

## Data

This example does not contain sample data due to its proprietary nature, but it can be reproduced using conventional Geospatial data. In order to run the example in this code, you would need the data described below. 


file_dem : Digital Elevation Model (DEM) Data
file_latit : Latitude and Longitude boundary information 
prs_file : Air pressure 
rhu_file : Humidity
tem_file : Temperature
win_file : Wind Speed
## Quick start guide
Prepare the environment  
**1) Download the Poplar SDK**  

Install the Poplar SDK following the instructions in the [Getting Started guide](https://docs.graphcore.ai/projects/ipu-pod-getting-started/en/latest/installation.html) for your IPU system. Make sure to source the enable.sh scripts for poplar.  

**2) Python**

Create a virtualenv and install the required packages:
```
bash
virtualenv venv -p python3.6
source venv/bin/activate
pip install <path to the tensorflow-1 wheel file from the Poplar SDK>
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**3) Compile and run example script**

The program `run.sh` contains the steps to compile the matrix solver library and run the IPU implementation of the kriging algorithm. This example uses 1 day’s data and  repeated 14 times to simulate 14 days of ET0 calculations. This will run the process with 4 IPU, which will take 10 minutes to complete.  

## License
The code presented here is licensed under the MIT License.  
`kriging_test.py` refers to `Pykrige`  
`kriging_test.py` is licensed under BSD 3-Clause: https://github.com/GeoStat-Framework/PyKrige/blob/main/LICENSE
